Insecure File Permissions:
Cron Case Study
We will first demonstate using
insecure file permissions
to escalate our privileges.
For the purpose of this example, we will
SSH to our dedicated Debian client.
In order to leverage insecure
file permissions,
we must locate an executable file
that not only allows us write access
but also runs as a privileged user.
On a Linux system, the cron time-based
job scheduler is a prime target,
as many jobs are executed
with root user privileges
and system administrators
often create scripts
for cron jobs with insecure permissions.
We can use the techniques
discussed earlier to locate cron jobs,
or we could inspect the cron
log file for running jobs:
It appears that a script called
user_backups.sh under /var/scripts
is executed as the root user
and judging by the timestamps,
it runs once every five minutes.
Since we know the location of the script,
let’s inspect its contents and permissions.
The script itself is fairly straight-forward:
it simply copies the student user’s home
directory to the backups subdirectory.
The permissions of the script shows that
any user can write to the file.
Since an unprivileged user can modify
the contents of the backup script,
we can edit it and add a
reverse shell one-liner.
If our plan works, we should receive
a root-level reverse shell
on our attacking machine
after 5 minutes, at most.
All we have to do now is set up a
listener on our Kali Linux machine
and wait for the cron job to execute.
The cron job executed, as did
the reverse shell we added.
We have successfully elevated
our privileges
and have access to a root shell
on the target.
Although this was a simple example,
we have encountered several
similar situations in the field
because administrators are often
more focused on cron’s odd syntax
than on file permissions
for their scripts.